---
layout: post
title: "Concerts"
date: 2025-06-30
background: '/img/bg-SLC.jpg'
---
Music concerts are a lot of fun. It was not until my late teenage/early adulthood years that I really started getting into concerts and going to them more frequently. Besides some of their outrageous ticket prices and limited availability, they can be fun and memorable events, especially if you already know the artist that is performing.

The first concert that I went to was in 2007 when I went to see Brain Setzer perform with his band *Stray Cats*. This band was a favorite of my dad's and we listened to them together a lot. I remember quite clearly the opening bands as well as the atmosphere of the venue, the crowd of other attendees, and of course seeing *Stray Cats*. This was an excellent and memoriable experience for my first concert.

The second big concert experience was at a smaller venue downtown to see *Fitz and the Tantrums* in 2016 along with a local band and one other opener. I went with my family and my girfriend and we had gotten there early and were right up front and center at the barricades. My family did not like the wild crowd so much so they went to the back while my girlfriend and I stayed in the front. We stayed there for the entire show and it was so cool to see them so close and be at the front of the energetic crowd.

That 2016 concert also introduced me to a local band that I am still following as they have grown which is something that I have learned to love about concerts which is to be introduced to all sorts of new bands and artists.

Since then, I have had many great concert experiences such as seeing a new favorite *Laufey* the day that we found out my wife was pregnant, or seeing my all-time favorite band *Twenty One Pilots* for the first time. I am looking forward to the many other shows in the future of favorite artists and new found favorite artists. Or even some where the music is not my favorite but just a fun time.

But most of all I am looking forward to taking my kid to their first concert like my dad did for me back in 2007.

I hope you get out and enjoy some shows. Regardless if it is a big sold-out stadium or arena or a small local venue, concerts are made to be great experiences.

See you around,

Sam